
  This document is work in progress, you should ignore it for the moment ..

TOOLS:

- The BNF Converter (https://bnfc.digitalgrammars.com/) is a compiler construction tool generating a compiler front-end from a Labelled BNF grammar.
- The language is implemented in Haskell programming language using the Stack tool to create and build the project: https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/#how-to-install-stack.

Reading Materials: Implementing Programming Languages. An Introduction to Compilers and Interpreters by Aarne Ranta: https://www.grammaticalframework.org/ipl-book/


Structure of the project:

- Language grammar: LambdaQ.cf
- Frontend is built automatically using BNF Converter:
 -- Compile the grammar: run 'make' in src folder
 -- The fromtend files will be generated in folder: src/Frontend/LambdaQ
- Compile the project code: 'stack build' 
- Running tests: 'stack test'

Language Design:
 - Parser & Lexer generated by BNFC catching syntax errors.
 - Semantic Analyser catching a number of errors:
   -- function names must be unique.
   -- function name in function type should match function name in function declaration.
   -- number of function arguments for a function does not exceed the number of arguments in signature.
   -- control qubits for controlled gates must be distinct.
   -- control bits for classically controlled gates must be distinct.
   -- for a controlled gates the control and target qubits must be distinct.
   -- gate names should be recognized as belonging to the set of supported gates.
 - Conversion of Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) to Intermediate Abstract Syntax Tree
   -- 
   --
 - Type Checker: make sure that the program is correct
 - Code Generator: generate QASM code for the input program.

 - 
Compilation Phase:
- Lexer & Parser
- Semantic Analyzer
- Normalization (De-sugaring)
- AST Converter
- Type Checker
- Code Generator